Tutorials for Pod Security Admission (#30422)
kubernetes/website: content/en/docs/tutorials/security/ns-level-pss.md

pod/nginx created
```

# Clean up

Run `kind delete cluster -name psa-ns-level` to delete the cluster created.

# Bringing it all together

Running the commands in this
[gist](https://gist.github.com/PushkarJ/c694bac35c2d100f906861667474afb5)
which were also discussed in this tutorial will do these steps in one go:

1. Create KinD cluster
2. Create new namespace
3. Apply `baseline` Pod Security Standard in `enforce` mode while applying
   `restricted` Pod Security Standard also in `warn` and `audit` mode.
4. Create a new pod with the following pod security standards applied

> Shoutout to Lachlan Evenson who wrote a
> [blog](https://medium.com/@LachlanEvenson/hands-on-with-kubernetes-pod-security-admission-b6cac495cd11)
> that covered similar content with older settings when pod security admission

> > was in alpha state (v1.22)

Author: @lachie83 let me know if you would rather keep this or remove it in favor of the call out for official v1.23 blog post? cc @jimangel

Reviewer: I like the idea of both sources pointing at each other. If we're planning on this landing on `main` post-release, we might consider throwing a `hold` label on this so it doesn't get merged early.

Author: @jimangel Yes this is on `/hold` already based on @sftim's suggestion here: https://github.com/kubernetes/website/pull/30502#issuecomment-973931518

The blog links are added here: https://github.com/kubernetes/website/pull/30422#discussion_r752808164 and tutorial links are requested here: https://github.com/kubernetes/website/pull/30502#discussion_r752667699

I can remove the medium blog link if the above cross linking works.

    
    kubectl cluster-info --context kind-psa-ns-level
    
    Not sure what to do next? 😅  Check out https://kind.sigs.k8s.io/docs/user/quick-start/
    ```

1. Set the kubectl context to the new cluster:
    ```shell
    kubectl cluster-info --context kind-psa-ns-level
    ```
   The output is similar to this:
    ```
    Kubernetes control plane is running at https://127.0.0.1:50996
    CoreDNS is running at https://127.0.0.1:50996/api/v1/namespaces/kube-system/services/kube-dns:dns/proxy
    
    To further debug and diagnose cluster problems, use 'kubectl cluster-info dump'.
    ```

## Create a namespace

Create a new namespace called `example`:

```shell
kubectl create ns example
```
The output is similar to this:
```
namespace/example created
```

## Apply Pod Security Standards

1. Enable Pod Security Standards on this namespace using labels supported by
   built-in Pod Security Admission. In this step we will warn on baseline pod
   security standard as per the latest version (default value)

    ```shell
    kubectl label --overwrite ns example \
      pod-security.kubernetes.io/warn=baseline \
      pod-security.kubernetes.io/warn-version=latest
    ```

> 2. Multiple pod security standards can be enabled on any namespace, using labels.

Reviewer 2: it might be worth noting that if this is an existing namespace that already contains workloads, using --dry-run=server is recommended first to determine if the new policy levels will disrupt existing workloads

---

> title: Applying Pod Security Standards at Namespace level

Reviewer 3: nit (page titles are title case)
```suggestion
title: Apply Pod Security Standards at the Namespace Level
```

content_type: tutorial
weight: 10
---

{{% alert title="Note" %}}
This tutorial applies only for new clusters. 
{{% /alert %}}

Pod Security admission (PSA) is enabled by default in v1.23 and later, as it [graduated
to beta](/blog/2021/12/15/pod-security-admission-beta/). Pod Security Admission
is an admission controller that applies Pod Security Standards when pods are

> created. In this tutorial, we will enforce `baseline` Pod Security Standard, 

Reviewer 3: nit:
```suggestion
created. In this tutorial, you will enforce the `baseline` Pod Security Standard,
```

one namespace at a time.

> 

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion

You can also apply Pod Security Standards to multiple namespaces at once at the cluster 
level. For instructions, refer to [Apply Pod Security Standards at the cluster level](/docs/tutorials/security/cluster-level-pss).
```

# Pre-requisites

> 

Reviewer 3: nit: I'd tell readers that they need either Docker or Podman to practice this.

> # Pre-requisites

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
## {{% heading "prerequisites" %}}
```

Install the following on your workstation:

- [KinD](https://kind.sigs.k8s.io/docs/user/quick-start/#installation)
- [kubectl](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/tools/)

> # Create cluster

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
## Create cluster
```

## Create cluster

1. Create a `KinD` cluster as follows:

    ```shell

>     kind create cluster --name psa-ns-level --image kindest/node:latest

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    kind create cluster --name psa-ns-level --image kindest/node:v1.23.0
```

    ```
    The output is similar to this:
    ```
    Creating cluster "psa-ns-level" ...

>      ✓ Ensuring node image (kindest/node:latest) 🖼 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
     ✓ Ensuring node image (kindest/node:v1.23.0) 🖼 
```

     ✓ Starting control-plane 🕹️ 
     ✓ Installing CNI 🔌 
     ✓ Installing StorageClass 💾 
    Set kubectl context to "kind-psa-ns-level"
    You can now use your cluster with:
    
    kubectl cluster-info --context kind-psa-ns-level
    
    Not sure what to do next? 😅  Check out https://kind.sigs.k8s.io/docs/user/quick-start/
    ```

> 2. Set the kubectl context to the new cluster

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
1. Set the kubectl context to the new cluster:
```

    ```shell
    kubectl cluster-info --context kind-psa-ns-level
    ```
    The output is similar to this:
    ```
    Kubernetes control plane is running at https://127.0.0.1:50996
    CoreDNS is running at https://127.0.0.1:50996/api/v1/namespaces/kube-system/services/kube-dns:dns/proxy
    
    To further debug and diagnose cluster problems, use 'kubectl cluster-info dump'.
    ```

> # Create Namespace

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
## Create a namespace
```

> Create a new namespace `example` for this tutorial:

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Create a new namespace called `example`:
```

```shell
kubectl create ns example
```
The output is similar to this:
```
namespace/example created
```

> # Applying one Pod Security Standard

Reviewer 4: I don't see the value in instructions for both one and multiple Standards. Make a single section called "Apply Pod Security Standards" and keep the instructions for applying multiple.

Reviewer 3: I'd be OK with adjusting this post-merge

Author: Merged the two sections together!

Enable Pod Security Standards on this namespace using labels supported by
built-in Pod Security Admission. In this step we will warn on baseline pod
security standard as per the latest version (default value)

```shell
kubectl label --overwrite ns example \
  pod-security.kubernetes.io/warn=baseline \
  pod-security.kubernetes.io/warn-version=latest
```

# Applying multiple Pod Security Standards

Multiple pod security standards can be enabled on any namespace, using labels.
Following command will `enforce` the `baseline` Pod Security Standard, but
`warn` and `audit` for `restricted` Pod Security Standards as per the latest
version (default value)

```
kubectl label --overwrite ns example \
  pod-security.kubernetes.io/enforce=baseline \
  pod-security.kubernetes.io/enforce-version=latest \
  pod-security.kubernetes.io/warn=restricted \
  pod-security.kubernetes.io/warn-version=latest \
  pod-security.kubernetes.io/audit=restricted \
  pod-security.kubernetes.io/audit-version=latest
```

> # Create Pod

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
## Verify the Pod Security Standards
```

    ```shell
    cat <<EOF > /tmp/pss/nginx-pod.yaml
    apiVersion: v1
    kind: Pod
    metadata:
      name: nginx
    spec:
      containers:
        - image: nginx
          name: nginx
          ports:
            - containerPort: 80
    EOF
    ```
2. Apply the pod spec to the cluster in `example` namespace:
    ```shell
    kubectl apply -n example -f /tmp/pss/nginx-pod.yaml
    ```
    The output is similar to this:
    ```
    Warning: would violate PodSecurity "restricted:latest": allowPrivilegeEscalation != false (container "nginx" must set securityContext.allowPrivilegeEscalation=false), unrestricted capabilities (container "nginx" must set securityContext.capabilities.drop=["ALL"]), runAsNonRoot != true (pod or container "nginx" must set securityContext.runAsNonRoot=true), seccompProfile (pod or container "nginx" must set securityContext.seccompProfile.type to "RuntimeDefault" or "Localhost")
    pod/nginx created
    ```
   
3. Apply the pod spec to the cluster in `default` namespace:
    ```shell
     kubectl apply -n default -f /tmp/pss/nginx-pod.yaml
    ```
    Output is similar to this:
    ```
    pod/nginx created
    ```

> As you can see the Pod Security Standards were applied only to `example` 
> namespace. For `default` namespace, pod was created without any warnings. 
> To apply pod security standards to multiple namespaces at once at cluster 
> level, please 
> [follow this tutorial](/docs/tutorials/security/cluster-level-pss).

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
The Pod Security Standards were applied only to the `example` 
namespace. You could create the same Pod in the `default` namespace
with no warnings. 
```

> # Clean up

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
## Clean up
```

Run `kind delete cluster -name psa-ns-level` to delete the cluster created.

## {{% heading "whatsnext" %}}

- Run a

> [gist](https://gist.github.com/PushkarJ/c694bac35c2d100f906861667474afb5)

Reviewer 3: Please move this from a gist into an example you commit (into `content/en/examples`), or omit the advice. It's OK to link to the example script on GitHub if that's useful to readers.
We definitely prefer not to recommend running 3rd party code from gists we don't control.

Author: Done
